---
layout: default
ref: help
title: Sign in support
lang: en
---

# Sign in support

## On this page

- [GCKey user name and password](#gckey-username-and-password)
- [Financial partner sign in](#financial-partner-sign-in)
- [Two step verification](#two-step-verification)

## GCKey username and password

If you want to

- Recover your username or password
- Change your password, recovery questions & answers, and email address
- Set up a username, password or recovery questions but are having problems

Visit [GCKey help](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/sign-in-online-account/gckey.html) to learn more

## Financial partner sign in

If you cannot sign in to your bank, please contact them for support. 

## Two step verification
<br/>
<details>

<summary>Why am I being asked to set up a ‘second step’?</summary>

<p>Two step verification is an extra layer of security that requires a code in addition to your password to access your account. This code can be sent to your phone or generated by the authenticator app.</p> 

<p>Think of it like a locked door that can only be opened with both a key and a secret code. Someone pretending to be you on the internet should never be able to get both the key and the code.</p>

</details>

<details>
<summary>What do you do with my information?</summary>

<p>Your phone number will be used to:</p>
<ul>
    <li>Send you codes to help verify it’s you signing in each time</li>
    <li>Notify you of any changes made to your sign in settings.</li>
</ul>

<p>Your phone number will be stored securely.</p>

<p>For more information, see the full <a href="../privacy/index.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">privacy notice statement</a>.</p>

</details>

<details>
<summary>What is an authenticator app?</summary>

<p>An authenticator app is a tool that helps keep your online account safe. Every time you sign in, the app will give you a new code you will need to enter to prove it's you signing in. This is more secure than using your mobile phone number to receive a one-time code.</p>

<p>You can download or use a third-party app of your choice. You only need to download it to one device.</p>

</details>

<details>
<summary>What if I lose my phone or phone number?</summary>

<p>If you set up a phone number as your two-step verification and have added a second, backup phone number, you can:</p>

<ul>
    <li>Select the ‘Try another method’ link on the screen you would have received your code</li>
    <li> Select your backup phone number to send another code</li>
    <li> Enter the code sent to your other phone</li>
    <li> Sign in</li>
</ul>
<p>If you set up a phone number as your two step verification and did not add a second, backup phone number and you have lost access to your phone number, unfortunately there is no way to recover your account. You will have to create a new account.</p>

</details>

<details>
<summary>How do I update a registered phone number?</summary>

<p>If you need to make a change to a phone number you have registered you will have to <strong>add</strong> the new phone number and <strong>delete</strong> the one that is no longer needed:</p>

<ul>
<li>Sign in as you normally would with your username, password and two step verification step</li>
<li>When you arrive on the <strong>You have successfully signed in</strong> screen, select the button <strong>Sign in settings</strong></li> 
<li>When you arrive on the <strong>Sign in settings</strong> screen, select the <strong>Add</strong> a mobile phone number option and follow the steps to add your new or updated phone number</li>
</ul>

<p>To delete the old phone number:</p>

<ul>
<li>From the main <strong>Sign in settings</strong> screen, select the <strong>Edit</strong> option next to the phone number you want to remove</li>
<li>On the <strong>Edit</strong> screen, select the <strong>Delete</strong> option</li> 
<li>For security, you will need to enter the full phone number to confirm the deletion</li>
</ul>

</details>
